# Assignment 1.3: Process Management

## Part 1: Questions

Answer the following questions and bring them in for a tutor to evaluate:

1 .What keystroke sequence do you execute to suspend a running terminal process
that is in the foreground?

```
Ctl-Z
To restore: jobs $1
```

2. When terminating a process, why is it important to try 'kill' before doing 'kill
-9'?

```
It doesn't allow the process to hang up and clean itself down.
```

## Part 2: Managing What's Running

1. Execute the program 'cat' with no arguments. This will cause the program to wait
for user input and appear to be a hung process. Pretend this actually IS a hung
process and execute the necessary commands to do the following tasks from within
the same session:

a. Suspend the process
b. Discover the process ID
c. Kill the process

```
kill -s SIGHUP [pid] // hang up, equivalent to Ctr-d
kill -s SIGINT [pid] // equivalent to Ctr-c
kill -s SIGTERM [pid] // terminate; default for kill command, still allows for
graceful shutdown
kill -s SIGKILL [pid]
ps aux | grep cat
fg $1
```

2. Again, execute the program 'cat' with no arguments and pretend it is a hung
   process. Login to your account in a separate session and execute the
necessary commands to do the following:

a. Discover the process ID
b. Kill the process

```
pgrep cat
pkill -9  3041
```

3. Execute a command in the background

```
$ cat &
```

4. List _every_ the processes running on your machine with full details.

```
ps -ef
```

5. List only the processes started by your terminal session:

```
ps -fx
```

6. List a process by its command name:

```
ps -C bash
```

7. Using `top`, list all running processes. Sory by memory and CPU usage:

```
Shift-m
Shift-p
```

4. Managing jobs

1. Run the `sleep 100` command in the foreground first, and then restart it in the background.

```
Ctl-Z
jobs
bg 1
```

2. Stop it again and start it in the foreground:

```
Ctl-Z
jobs
fg 1
```

5. Part 3: Crontab

Set up a cronjob to output the time and file disk usage to a file every 15
minutes.

```
crontab -e
*/5 * * * * df -a > ~/disk_usage.txt 2>&1
```
